UPGRADE-5.0.md, before:

UPGRADE FROM 4.0 to 5.0
=======================

@ngx-formly/core
----------------
**Note**: this only affect the user's who create a custom field type.

 * Custom field type `FieldType`: in case of creating a custom field that extend `FieldType`, calling `super.{ngOnInit, ngOnChanges, ngDoCheck, ngAfterViewInit, ngOnDestroy}` is not allowed anymore.

Before:
```ts
export class CustomFormlyField extends FieldType {
  ngOnInit() {
    super.ngOnInit();
    ...
  }
}
```

After:
```ts
export class CustomFormlyField extends FieldType {
  ngOnInit() {
    ...
  }
}
```

 * `FormlyValidationMessage`: the deprecated `fieldForm` input is removed

Before:
```html
<formly-validation-message [field]="field"  [fieldForm]="formcontrol"></formly-validation-message>
```
After:
```html
<formly-validation-message [field]="field"></formly-validation-message>
```

 * rename `Field` to `FieldType`

Before:
```ts
import { Field } from '@ngx-formly/core';
```
After:
```ts
import { FieldType } from '@ngx-formly/core';
```

 * passing `model`, `options` and `form` inputs to `formly-field` component is not required anymore:

Before:
```html
<formly-field [form]="form" [field]="field" [options]="options" [model]="model"></formly-field>
```
After:
```html
<formly-field [field]="field"></formly-field>
```

 * using `createControl` to create custom form control is deprecated, use `prePopulate` hook instead:

Before:
```ts
export class FormlyFieldCustomType extends FieldType {
  static createControl(model: any, field: FormlyFieldConfig): AbstractControl {
    return new FormControl(...);
  }
}
```
After:
```ts
export class FormlyFieldCustomType extends FieldType {
  prePopulate(field: FormlyFieldConfig) {
    if (field.formControl) {
      return;
    }

    field.formControl = new FormControl(...);
  }
}
```

 * `lifecycle` option has been renamed to `hooks` with a change in the callback signature:

Before:
```ts
  fields = [
    {
      key: 'email',
      ...
      lifecycle: {
        onInit: (form, field, model, options) => {
          ...
        },
      },
    },
  ]
```
After:
```ts
  fields = [
    {
      key: 'email',
      ...
      hooks: {
        onInit: (field) => {
          const { form, model, options } = field;
          ...
        },
      },
    },
  ]
```
**Warning**: `onChanges` under `hooks` doens't take account of model, options and form changes (https://github.com/formly-js/ngx-formly/issues/1241).

@ngx-formly/material
--------------------
**Note**: this only affect the user's who import sub-modules of `@ngx-formly/material` instead of main module `FormlyMaterialModule`.

 * `textarea`: textarea is moved into a new sub-module named `FormlyMatTextAreaModule` and is not part of `FormlyMatInputModule` anymore.

Before:
```ts
import { FormlyMatInputModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/input';
```
After:
```ts
import { FormlyMatInputModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/input';
import { FormlyMatTextAreaModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/textarea';
```

 * `multicheckbox`: multicheckbox is moved into a new sub-module named `FormlyMatMultiCheckboxModule` and is not part of `FormlyMatCheckboxModule` anymore.

Before:
```ts
import { FormlyMatCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/checkbox';
```
After:
```ts
import { FormlyMatCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/checkbox';
import { FormlyMatMultiCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/multicheckbox';
```

@ngx-formly/bootstrap
---------------------
 * the deprecated wrappers ('label', 'fieldset', 'description', 'validation-message') has been removed, you may use `form-field` instead (for a smooth upgrade, ensure updating to version `4.7` first)

 * bootstrap v3 support is removed, so if you still using the v3 you may check the migrating to v4 https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/migration/


@ngx-formly/ionic
-----------------

The library now require the Ionic V4 (https://blog.ionicframework.com/announcing-ionic-4-beta/).

Commit message:

feat(core): deprecate manipulators in favor of extensions (#1332)

UPGRADE-5.0.md, after:

UPGRADE FROM 4.0 to 5.0
=======================

@ngx-formly/core
----------------
**Note**: this only affect the user's who create a custom field type.

 * Custom field type `FieldType`: in case of creating a custom field that extend `FieldType`, calling `super.{ngOnInit, ngOnChanges, ngDoCheck, ngAfterViewInit, ngOnDestroy}` is not allowed anymore.

Before:
```ts
export class CustomFormlyField extends FieldType {
  ngOnInit() {
    super.ngOnInit();
    ...
  }
}
```

After:
```ts
export class CustomFormlyField extends FieldType {
  ngOnInit() {
    ...
  }
}
```

 * `FormlyValidationMessage`: the deprecated `fieldForm` input is removed

Before:
```html
<formly-validation-message [field]="field"  [fieldForm]="formcontrol"></formly-validation-message>
```
After:
```html
<formly-validation-message [field]="field"></formly-validation-message>
```

 * rename `Field` to `FieldType`

Before:
```ts
import { Field } from '@ngx-formly/core';
```
After:
```ts
import { FieldType } from '@ngx-formly/core';
```

 * passing `model`, `options` and `form` inputs to `formly-field` component is not required anymore:

Before:
```html
<formly-field [form]="form" [field]="field" [options]="options" [model]="model"></formly-field>
```
After:
```html
<formly-field [field]="field"></formly-field>
```

 * using `createControl` to create custom form control is deprecated, use `prePopulate` hook instead:

Before:
```ts
export class FormlyFieldCustomType extends FieldType {
  static createControl(model: any, field: FormlyFieldConfig): AbstractControl {
    return new FormControl(...);
  }
}
```
After:
```ts
export class FormlyFieldCustomType extends FieldType {
  prePopulate(field: FormlyFieldConfig) {
    if (field.formControl) {
      return;
    }

    field.formControl = new FormControl(...);
  }
}
```

 * `lifecycle` option has been renamed to `hooks` with a change in the callback signature:

Before:
```ts
  fields = [
    {
      key: 'email',
      ...
      lifecycle: {
        onInit: (form, field, model, options) => {
          ...
        },
      },
    },
  ]
```
After:
```ts
  fields = [
    {
      key: 'email',
      ...
      hooks: {
        onInit: (field) => {
          const { form, model, options } = field;
          ...
        },
      },
    },
  ]
```
**Warning**: `onChanges` under `hooks` doens't take account of model, options and form changes (https://github.com/formly-js/ngx-formly/issues/1241).

 * `manipulators` config is deprecated in favor of `extension`:

Before:
```ts
FormlyModule.forRoot({
  manipulators: [{ method: 'run', class: TemplateAddons }],
})
```

After:
```ts
FormlyModule.forRoot({
  extensions: [{ name: 'addons', extension: addonsExtension }],
})
```

@ngx-formly/material
--------------------
**Note**: this only affect the user's who import sub-modules of `@ngx-formly/material` instead of main module `FormlyMaterialModule`.

 * `textarea`: textarea is moved into a new sub-module named `FormlyMatTextAreaModule` and is not part of `FormlyMatInputModule` anymore.

Before:
```ts
import { FormlyMatInputModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/input';
```
After:
```ts
import { FormlyMatInputModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/input';
import { FormlyMatTextAreaModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/textarea';
```

 * `multicheckbox`: multicheckbox is moved into a new sub-module named `FormlyMatMultiCheckboxModule` and is not part of `FormlyMatCheckboxModule` anymore.

Before:
```ts
import { FormlyMatCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/checkbox';
```
After:
```ts
import { FormlyMatCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/checkbox';
import { FormlyMatMultiCheckboxModule } from '@ngx-formly/material/multicheckbox';
```

@ngx-formly/bootstrap
---------------------
 * the deprecated wrappers ('label', 'fieldset', 'description', 'validation-message') has been removed, you may use `form-field` instead (for a smooth upgrade, ensure updating to version `4.7` first)

 * bootstrap v3 support is removed, so if you still using the v3 you may check the migrating to v4 https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/migration/


@ngx-formly/ionic
-----------------

The library now require the Ionic V4 (https://blog.ionicframework.com/announcing-ionic-4-beta/).
